---
layout: post
title:  "CX01"
date:   2021-07-21 00:00:00 -0400
categories: security  writeup 
---
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/assets/styles/main.css" type="text/css">

This is one of the challenges from the <a href="https://www.nationalcyberscholarship.org/">National Cyber Scholarship Competition</a>. It was labelled as the most difficult challenge in the cryptography section and worth 1000 points. 

Here is the briefing:
<hr>
<b>Briefing</b>

Complete the missing BIP39 mnemonic seed phrase and get address 3 at BIP32 derivation path m/0'/0 as the flag.

    nature midnight buzz toe sleep fence kiwi ivory excuse system ____ ______

You will need to make use of this, as the start of the 128 char BIP39 seed:
    
    131c553f7fb4127e7b2b346991dd92

<hr>

At first sight, this problem was really intimidating because I had no clue what half the words meant. BIP39? seed phrase? derivation path??? It was like reading a different language. However, what caught my eye was how much information the problem gave. Most of the other challenges had one sentence ("find the flag") and attached a file, making it really difficult to understand what to do. I decided to pursue this challenge because it was clear that I could find the flag if I researched the topic.



BIP39 is a standard used for seed phrases, which are a kind of "password" used to unlock Bitcoin wallets. Basically, the wallet software used to access the funds may use BIP39 to generate the seed phrase, and the owner will ideally write down the phrase. This way, even if their computer is destroyed or corrupted, they can simply use that same software and input the seed phrase to access their funds again. This is really convenient, but if you can access your wallet with just the seed phrase, then that means anyone else could as well.


There is a limited number of words that could be included in the seed phrase, and the order of the words matter. For BIP39, this is 2048 words. Since the problem tells you to complete the seed phrase, I assumed this would involve some sort of brute forcing to find the correct words. The problem also gives the start of the BIP39 seed, meaning that I would need to write a script that would generate the seed based on the seed phrase for every word combination possible and check if it matched what was given.

Here is the script I used: 

    from cryptotools.BTC.HD import check, WORDS
    from mnemonic import Mnemonic
    import unicodedata, hashlib, binascii

    mnemo = Mnemonic("english")
    phrase = "nature midnight buzz toe sleep fence kiwi ivory excuse system {x} {y}"
    cnt = 0

    def generate_seed(phrase):
        normalized_mnemonic = unicodedata.normalize("NFKD", phrase)
        password = ""
        normalized_passphrase = unicodedata.normalize("NFKD", password)

        passphrase = "mnemonic" + normalized_passphrase
        mnemonic = normalized_mnemonic.encode("utf-8")
        passphrase = passphrase.encode("utf-8")
        bin_seed = hashlib.pbkdf2_hmac("sha512", mnemonic, passphrase, 2048)
        return binascii.hexlify(bin_seed[:64])


    keystart = "131c553f7fb4127e7b2b346991dd92"
    for word in WORDS:
        if len(word)!=4:
            continue
        for word2 in WORDS:
            if len(word2)!=6:
                continue
            mn = phrase.format(x=word,y=word2)
            if check(mn):
                if keystart in str(generate_seed(mn)):
                    print("Seed: ", str(generate_seed(mn)))
                    print("Phrase: ", mn)
                    exit()

    print("Not found!")


After running it, it returned a seed and the phrase of:

    nature midnight buzz toe sleep fence kiwi ivory excuse system exit filter



The next part involves figuring out..."address 3 at BIP32 derivation path m/0'/0"
I didn't know what that was, and I was intimidated by the switch from BIP39 to BIP32, but I had gotten far enough that I couldn't just abandon the challenge anymore.


A derivation path is what the wallet uses to specify which private key to use. You can read a lot more about crypto wallets <a href="https://medium.com/mycrypto/the-journey-from-mnemonic-phrase-to-address-6c5e86e11e14">here</a>, but I'm not going to go too deep into it so I don't accidentally give incorrect information.


In my process of researching all of this, I came across a website at <a href="https://iancoleman.io/bip39/">https://iancoleman.io/bip39/</a>. Before doing the brute forcing, I thought that I was just meant to use the website, but I quickly realized that I needed the full mnemonic phrase and seed before using this site. Now that I do have it, I input the phrase and the seed was automatically generated. This helped me make sure that the seed that I got was correct, and it was. The final step was to scroll to "Derivation Path," click on "BIP32," and enter the derivation path to be m/0’/0 and scrolled down to the table with the addresses. I looked at the address whose path included /0/3 and tried inputting that as the flag. I actually didn't expect it to work--I didn't think I could do a problem like this--but it was correct!!!


I'm glad that I was able to be introduced to this aspect of cryptography, but I really wish that the NCSF had provided some explanation or further resources that could help me understand this more. I never came across this stuff in Cyberstart America, and I still don't get how this works as much as I wish I did. Regardless, completing this challenge gave me a lot of points, and I was really happy to be able to combine python skills with cryptographic algorithms.